## Experimental pKa values of SAMPL6 pKa challenge molecules
This directory contains results of the pKa measurements performed with Sirius T3 instruments for 24 small molecules. 
3 independent replicate pKa measurements were done for each molecule, starting from the same DMSO stock solution.
Please see [SAMPL6/pKa Challenge Instructions/Experimental Details](https://github.com/MobleyLab/SAMPL6/blob/master/pKa_challenge_instructions.md#experimental-details) for more details about the experiment.

`pKa_experimental_values.csv` file contains mean and standard error of the mean(SEM) of experimental macroscopic pKa values, calculated using `calc_pKa_value_statistics.py` script.
Since pKa values measured by Sirius T3 were reported with 2 decimal places, we have reported SEM as 0.01 in cases where SEM values calculated from 3 replicates were lower than 0.01.  

## Manifest
- `pKa_experimental_values.csv` - Mean and SEM of pKa values organized in a table. Up to three pKa values were reported based on how many pKas were measured in the experimental interval of 2-12.
- `calc_pKa_value_statistics.py` - Python script used to calculate mean and SEM of pKa values from `pKa_results_of_replicate_experiments.csv`.
- `pKa_results_of_replicate_experiments.csv` - Experimental results of independent replicates of pKa measurements(N=3) and names of experimental reports (PDF files can be found in `experiment_reports\` directory). For molecules with pKas measured both in 100% water and with cosolvent, pKa measurements done in 100% water are selected to be used for SAMPL6 challenge analysis considering potentially higher accuracy of pKa measurements in 100% water.
- `experiment_reports/` - This directory contains reports generated by Sirius T3 software for the results of pKa measurements. Refer to `pKa_replicate_experimental_results.csv` for matching SAMPL6 molecule IDs to names of report files.
- `experiment_reports_of_extra_cosolvent_experiments/` -  This directory contains reports generated by Sirius T3 software for the results of extra pKa measurements performed with cosolvent method (Yasuda-Shedlovsky Extrapolation) for molecules that UV-metric pKa measurement in 100% water  were already done. These extra experiments were collected only to evaluate if there is a bias in pKa measurement method that uses cosolvent.
- `pKa_results_of_replicate_experiments_with_extra_cosolvent_experiments.csv` - A table of all experimental results of pKa measurements and names of experimental reports of each replicate experiment. In contrast to `pKa_results_of_replicate_experiments.csv`, this table also lists extra pKa measurements done with cosolvent method for molecules soluble enough to have their pKas measured in 100% water with UV-metric pKa method.
- `comparing_water_vs_cosolvent_pKa_values.xlsx` - For molecules for which pKa measurements were performed with both water and cosolvent extrapolation based methods, this spreadsheet compares the differences in pKa values. Cosolvent pKa values were observed to be biased up to 0.4 pKa units, although on average the difference is 0.05 and the direction of bias seems random.
- `experimental_ID_and_SAMPL6_molecule_ID_table.csv` - A table that matches experimental molecule IDs to SAMPL6 molecule IDs.
- `purity\` - This directory contains purity values of solid powder stocks of SAMPL6 pKa compounds. Purity of compounds were measured by Heather Wang with LC-MS method.
